Coc updates (#15)
fosstodon/hub: coc.md

permalink: /coc/
layout: default
---
## Code of Conduct
v0.1.0-2025-06-19

In this document, we describe our intentions for Fosstodon, and set our expectations for all users on Fosstodon.

This is a living document, which may be amended at any time by the [Fosstodon team](https://hub.fosstodon.org/team) to better communicate or adjust these goals.

### What we are

Fosstodon is a Mastodon instance that federates with many other servers in the fediverse, also known as the open social web. The theme of this instance is Free/Libre/Open-Source software and adjacent communities. This is what the "FOSS" in our name represents.

### Intentions

Fosstodon intends to provide a friendly environment for those who want a social media experience that prioritizes FOSS, where you can share your interests, passions, and achievements. Nobody should feel unwelcome on the basis of their skills, experience, or ability to read a manual; Fosstodon is *not* an experts-only space.

> While using Fosstodon or engaging with Fosstodon members, everyone should be safe from harassment and similar antisocial behavior. As a community, we aim to curate a safe place for anyone, regardless of their characteristics including but not limited to: race, ethnicity, national identity, spoken language, sex, gender identity or expression, sexuality, sexual orientation, physical or mental health status, disability, other body characteristics, or age.

Reviewer: This could be made less wordy and more maintainable:
```suggestion
While using Fosstodon or engaging with Fosstodon members, everyone should be safe from harassment and similar antisocial behavior. As a community, we aim to curate a safe place for everyone.
```
But I understand if you prefer to keep this incomplete/growing list of characteristics if it will make certain classes of users more comfortable.

> Additionally, as members, you are expected to practice tolerance of others' expressions of faith, personal philosophy, or political affiliation, *provided* those values do not conflict with this code of conduct or impact the safety of others. We do not want a [paradox of tolerance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paradox_of_tolerance) on Fosstodon.

Reviewer: Perhaps make this less wordy:
```suggestion
Additionally, as members, you should tolerate the values of others, *provided* those values do not conflict with this code of conduct or impact the safety of others. We do not want a [paradox of tolerance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paradox_of_tolerance) on Fosstodon.
```

> We understand that many members have strong opinions about "freedom of speech", however this is not a feature we offer.

Reviewer 2: It's not entirely clear to me what is implied by "a feature" in this sentence, it may help to be explicit, especially given that "freedom of speech" is in quotes? I think what you're saying is that Fosstodon does not permit any member to say anything they want. (Perhaps other servers do, and tout it as a feature? I don't actually know, I'm just guessing based off that wording)

Reviewer: It seems to be duplicating the "free speech zone" restriction above and could probably be safely deleted:
```suggestion
```

Reviewer 3: There is a whole subset of servers in the fediverse that are centered around the notion of free speech, yes.

It's also common for folks to conflate the concepts of free speech with the values of free as in freedom in the FOSS world, and expect free software related communities and services to accommodate it accordingly.

Between these two datapoints, I think it is necessary to emphasize that this is not a place for free speech even if members feel it should be. Phrasing it as a "feature" felt thematic to software and provides a bit of levity for the otherwise heavy document.

### Expectations

#### Conduct

This section defines our expectations for all content on Fosstodon, *regardless* of whether it is public, unlisted, followers-only, or addressed to specific people.

The following are things we encourage while using Fosstodon:
- *DO* toot your own horn and show us your authentic self. We want to know about cool things you are involved with and things you have achieved.
- *DO* make use of blocking, muting, and labeling tools to tune out content you don't want to see. Social media can be triggering, stressful, and anxiety-inducing.
- *DO* use hashtags and content warnings (CWs) to allow everyone else the opportunity to customize their feeds, too.

> - *DO* use an alt text when uploading pictures or videos, to support users who are blind or have low vision.

Reviewer: Perhaps:
```suggestion
- *DO* use an alt text when uploading pictures or videos, to support users with visual impairment.
```

- *DO* make a reasonable effort to respect how people identify themselves. It is good to check profiles before making assumptions!
- *DO* demonstrate empathy and kindness to others.
- *DO* accept accountability and responsibility, apologize to those affected by your mistakes, and learn from the experience.
- *DO* prioritize the health and cohesiveness of the community. Remember we're all involved in FOSS; be collaborative here as well.

The following iterates the content that we absolutely do *not* want on Fosstodon:
- *DO NOT* disparage individuals or groups based on race, ethnicity, national identity, spoken language, sex, gender identity or expression, sexuality, sexual orientation, physical or mental health status, disability, other body characteristics, age, culture, religion, personal philosophy, or political affiliation.
- *DO NOT* use slurs, "dog-whistles", coded pejoratives, or otherwise publish content that is bigoted, supremacist, or hateful.
- *DO NOT* harass, "dog-pile", defame, intimidate, threaten, expose private information about ("doxing"), or intentionally cause distress to other users.

> - *DO NOT* knowingly post misleading information, engage in deceptive or disruptive campaigns intended to incite alarm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- *DO NOT* knowingly post misleading information or engage in deceptive or disruptive campaigns intended to incite alarm.
```

- *DO NOT* participate in engagement that is intended to antagonize, inflame, or cause confrontation.
- *DO NOT* post adult or age-restricted content. This includes nudity and other sexualized or violent content.

> - *DO NOT* post commercial promotions, or advertise through posts that are exclusively links and/or which contain excessive hashtags. This includes repetitive self-promotion for profit. We don't want spam.

Author: Maybe there's a little confusion; this clause specifically aims at commercial posts that are: 

> .. exclusively links and/or which contain excessive hashtags. This includes repetitive self-promotion for profit.

This would not apply to all commercial promotions or self-promotion. It's hard to nail-down exactly what falls here and is one of those "You know it when you see it" types of categories, but would be a sub-category of spam.

- *DO NOT* use automated tools to post without also monitoring and/or interacting from your account.

Neither retribution, nor any sincerely-held belief or opinion, will be accepted as an excuse for any of the above.

In cases of behavior that conflicts with this document, we expect you to contact the moderation team via the report tool, rather than attempt to enforce it yourself.

#### Our local timeline

> The local timeline consists of public listed posts and replies that our members make. To help fulfil our intention of prioritizing FOSS discussion, members should make use of labeling tools that Mastodon provides for improved reach and individual curation. Hashtags and content warnings (CWs) help people customize their timelines. By using these tools, you make it possible for others to shape their experiences by allowing them to filter or hide content they don't want.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The local timeline consists of public listed posts and replies that our members make. To help fulfill our intention of prioritizing FOSS discussion, members should make use of labeling tools that Mastodon provides for improved reach and individual curation. Hashtags and content warnings (CWs) help people customize their timelines. By using these tools, you make it possible for others to shape their experiences by allowing them to filter or hide content they don't want.
```

(Apparently fulfil is the English/Australia spelling, so perhaps that isn't a typo if that's the spelling of this document.)

Author: The doc is American English, so this is a good catch, thank you :)

CWs are not a requirement for most content, however special care must be given for *labeling* topics that others may find overwhelming. This includes, but is not limited to:
- global and local politics,
- things likely to upset others such as graphic media, rants, etc.,
- activism that does not contribute to improving FOSS or its communities, and
- low-effort "[shitposting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shitposting)".

> Using your best judgment with CWs is encouraged, however the moderation team may apply CWs to reported content they deem fall into any of the above categories.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using your best judgment with CWs is encouraged; however the moderation team may apply CWs to reported content they deem to fall into any of the above categories.
```

## Enforcement of this Code of Conduct

> Moderation of Fosstodon is done collaboratively by a team that includes global representation from POC, as well as LGBTQIA+ and disabled folk. All decision-making communication, including the audit log, are visible to everyone in the Fosstodon team. All team members are committed to the [team covenant](https://hub.fosstodon.org/covenant), and will take a pragmatic and individual approach to each report.

Reviewer: I don't know what "POC" stands for. Should it be spelled out?

Author: People of color. Yes, that could be spelled out instead, to avoid confusion.
